# _Prologue_

_Our tale begins on the docks in the bustling city of Calimport – the lively and densely populated capital of Calimsham, a rich cultural place steeped in thousands of years of thriving trade and diabolical politics. A sizeable merchant vessel, the loyal gull, is moored in the harbour, creaking gently with the warm breeze. The deck is swarming with sailors preparing the boat for a long journey.

_We see a halfling man with curly hair, leaning on the ships rail, his gaze fixed firmly on the horizon. Armoured with serviceable but worn scale mail, he grips a plain wooden handle attached to a chain leading to a curious bronze flail head. He takes a deep breath, and turns folding his arms, to keep an eye on the activities on deck.

_We hear the cheerful chuckle of a heavily armoured, stout dwarf, as he shares a wineskin with some of the sailors - before a glare from the first mate sends them back to their duties. With a final swig and a grin, the dwarf glances up at the sky and mutters something, smiling to himself, before hefting a Warhammer across his shoulders and heading below decks.

_A tall and fair haired elven man makes his way aboard, carrying several heavily bound books and a stack of papers bursting from a leather satchel. Donned in fine blue robes he glances around the deck – taking everything in with a keen gaze. Seemingly deep in thought he steps up to the rail and looks towards the morning sun. with a subtle gesture and a brief flash of light, he looks down at a sundial which has materialised in his palm and nods. With a gentle pop the sundial disappears.

_The elf is observed by an unnoticed Tiefling, leaning casually at the back of the ship, arms crossed, head slightly cocked to the side. His piercing green eyes contrast with the blood red of his skin, and strange geometric tattoos peak out from dark leather armour. With a smirk he swings a bag over his shoulders and heads down into the belly of the ship.

_As the final preparations are being made, the bosun who was checking names off a list calls for the gangplank to be lifted. As this happens we see another, shorter figure cloaked and hooded, hurriedly slipping through the legs of the morning crowds before hopping out from a shadow, startling the bosun. A leather gloved hand reaches out pressing a fat leather pouch into the Bosun’s hand. The sailor hefts the pouch with a clink and peers inside while the hooded figure turns and glances back through the crows, revealing the face of a swarthy halfling, sharp eyes darting around the bustling docks. The Bosun, seeming satisfied with the coin ushers the halfling aboard with a nod of his head, but his eyes remain stern. The short fellow immediately makes for the decks below, unknowingly watched by the other halfling with the flail, before seeming to meld into the shadows as he descends.

[[1 Chapter I | Chaper I ->]] 