[[1 Chapter II | <- Chapter II]]    [[3 Chapter IV | Chapter IV ->]]

# The Deeds of the Gangbangers: Chapter II

##  Session 21

The Gangbangers, complete after being reuinted with Barathol, headed back towards Rockfleet. Kara suggested they take a small rowboat so as to be able to board Merlino's vessel directly in case of any funny business in town with the Onyx company. They travelled a short distance to a place known as  The Plug which is a choke point along the river which separates the South and North islands of Rockfleet - controlled by Rockfleet allowing them to restrict the easy trade route for the merchants from Rivermine. The Gang picked up a boat here and headed back to Nero's Fin, Merlino's ship. They filled him in on the findings in their letters which made him uneasy. He stated that the Dread Prince was unlikely to plan a coup as what would it achieve? He already has absolute power over the other captains.. but something is going on under the Dread Fort. There are whispers that strange goings on occur there. He asked if they would check it out for him and report back.

After a brief rest the Gang headed to the Martyr's circle where they were to do battle with four members of Lazarus' crew who challenged them the previous day. Ailish wrapped the shield that he had stolen from Garruk Trollpike in hides to conceal it from him. The arena was packed and the battle was short but bloody - the Gangbangers not only defeating the other crew in combat but near incinerating them, killing them beyond revival.

As the last man fell, Ailish turned to look at Garruk in the stands - gritted his teeth and threw the burlap sack off of the shield revealing it to his Duregar enemy. Garruk's eyes narrowed...

## Session 22

In response to this taunt, Garruk Trollpike leapt the full 15 ft from the stands - assuming his enlarged form making the ground quake as he landed. His huge direwolf companion entered the ring along with Roke Bagger and the hobgoblin Ranger Fotkin. As the light drizzle that had been falling throughout the day turned into a full thunderstorm, the Dread Prince allowed Captain Merlino's crew to aid the Gangbangers with some healing before the bloody battle ensued. Many of the Gangbangers fell in this combat, only to be revived in the nick of time. It was close fought but with the use of hold person, Guybrush slowly pushed his dagger through the throat of Roke Bagger. The wolf was eventually slain and Garruk's enlarged form dispelled. With a final shout of fury, Ailish dealt a huge divine critical hit to the Duergar leaving his headless corpe a bloody mess in the sand. Ailish removed the wolf's tail as a trophy while the Onyx Company guards dragged away the headless corpse. The gangbangers were victorious once again.

Barathol staggered towards the Dread Prince's booth and called out, saying he had information that might please him to know. The Dread Prince's lips curled into a wry smile and he invited the Gangbangers to a private event that evening in the Captain's Club - a place reserved only for the elite of Rockfleet.

## Session 23

After briefly celebrating with Merlino's crew, the Gangbangers headed to the Captain's club in the Dread Fort. A finely decked out room greeted them, with an elderly Orcish bartender and musical entertainment. Gambling tables sat in the corners alongside long benches laden with fine food. Barathol immediately asked for the strongest drink and was given a dark viscous liquid which burned on the way down his throat - he became instantly intoxicated. . The Dread Prince sat in a corner with his advisor Ulmanor, the hooded and sallow skinned Archnavigator, beside him. The guys played some games, gambled and drank before being summoned to the Dread Prince's table. Barathol revealed the information that the Onyx Company had planned to betray the Dread Prince but he seemed unphased and brushed this information aside as if it was not news to him.

The Dread Prince then summoned another individual to the table, a gentleman known as Dr Nailik, apparently an expert in Nimbralian history and archeology, and also a magic user. The Dread Prince emplored the Gangbangers to accompany Dr Nailik into a Nimbralian temple discovered underwater beneath the Dread Fort. Since uncovering the entrance the seas around rockfleet had become rougher and storms were more frequent. Based on knowledge of unknown origin, they were instructed to accompany Dr Nailik into the temple, making it safe, and ideally finding the location of a specific chamber said to reside within where a particular crystal was to be installed. During this time Ailish noticed Dr Nailik was giving Aelnor a subtle sidelong glances as if he knew who he was...

After the Gangbangers agreed to aid the Dread Prince in return for a ship of their very own, they returned to the revelry and watched an enchanting performance by a man in a straw hat playing the violin. A parrot flew over to their table and grabbed a piece of food from one of their plates. It flew back over Barathol's head and he attempted to skewer it with a fork - successfully, to the dismay of the parrot's owner who cried out over the dead body of her companion... The gangbangers also encountered a swarthy dark elven man surrounded by heavily armoured guards. An Onyx Company commander, not best pleased that his General had been slain in the Martyr's circle. It seems the business with the Onyx Company is perhaps not yet concluded. 

After the evening was done, the Dread Prince called them all to a private chamber where he bestowed gifts of magical prowess upon the group to aid them in their upcoming task. Guybrush stayed behind briefly for a private word before returning wearing a new belt of daggers.

## Session 24

Ready for their upcoming mission the group descended beneath the Dread Fort, to a place known as the hollow hall. A huge cavern lit with tiny blue/green lanterns revealing a number of unnoccupied abodes around the edge of a large body of water. In the centre stands a building on tall stone stilts, with a tower rising into the ceiling, presumably connected to the Dread Fort. They met Dr Nailik and his bodyguard, a half-orc named Chaz with a huge greataxe across his back.

Dr Nailik opened a chest lined with several potions of waterbreathing - after consuming they descended into the dark waters, illuminated only by magical orbs of cantrip induced light. After diving deep to the bottom of the murky depths, some 100 ft beneath the surface, the discovered a cave entrance but were attacked by fishlike humanoids with tridents and scimitars, their bulbous yellow eyes just visible through the gloom. After dispatching them (and a shark) they headed cautiously into the cave.

The cave turned out to be a submerged chamber built directly into the rock. A giant statue lay shattered on the floor and crumbling plinths rose up from cracked tiles. Two protruding rounded walls with doors in stood against one wall, flanked by statues with outstretched hands. One had a blue faintly glowing crystal in it's grasp, the other was empty next to a caved in doorway. Ailish spoke to an Octopus using his Ring of Animal Friendship and gained the knowlege that somehow the crystal and another were used to gain access to the temple. After some time it was discovered that the blue crystal opened a portal to the water plane, and a light whiteish crystal residing in the crumbling room opened a portal to the air plane. By closing the door to one of the chambers they created an airlock and were able to open the door on the far side and gain access to the deep citadel - once again breathing air, although dank and musty.  They walked out onto a ruined gantry, and before them lay a cavernous room descending many floors down. 

## Session 25

Ailish took the initiative and headed left towards a passageway, using his flail to light the way. Unfortunately he was grasped by a tendril that hung from the cieiling and was lifted up, dangerously close to the huge drop. The battle with the creature disturbed others of it's kind, seeming living stalagtites with long grasping tendrils to reel their prey into their gaping maws filled with jagged teeth.

Two fireballs and 1.5 dead ropers later the gangbangers + Nailik and Chaz headed to the other passage, discovering a hole in the ground. Barathol jumped in and recieved many a poisonous spore to the face but attempted to sever some of the bioluminscent mushrooms within. This angered the mushrooms which began to move (slowly) to attack. Chaz lifted Barathol out and forlornly gazed into the seeming sentient face of a glowing mushroom man that was stuck below...

Heading to the other side they dropped down into the lower level of a tower. One wall appeared to be collapsed but closer inspection revealed a natural cave within. Resting on a plint and tied with chains was a mysterious blue dusty bottle with an ornate brass stopper. Upon appraoching a voice echoed in their minds to release him! The voice apparently belonged to a "genie" named [[Kumari]]. Barathol chucked him into the bag of holding instead.

## Session 26

Descending further to the lowest level the gang fought a stone golem powered by a shard of ether.  Chaz discovered a piece of a statue's face on the ground while Aelnor studied the carvings surrounding the room. The carvings were similar to those found in the Nimbralian Air Temple - except seemed to depict a more complete story. Some time after the initial settlement of Murraka, the Nimbralian's encountered a terrible dark entity near the volcano in the centre. They destroyed this thing with their most powerful mages, losing many in the struggle but they prevailed and were peaceful for centuries. However the entity or another that looked the same returned and began to wage a terrible war against the Nimbralian's turning their own people against them. The last few murals were damaged and obscured but the final panel showed the thing subdued and defeated once more. Atop a collosal pile of Nimbralian corpses. 

The passage beyond led to a strange maze filled with knee high water. The single route led to a waterfall with an impossible drop which turned out to be an illusion and was completely fine. Another route had a door at the end which was reflected in water on the ceiling. Deciding to leave this they continued through the maze and ended up infront of a large mirror reflecting themselves. Upon touching the mirror Barathol was grabbed by his own reflection and pulled through. A fight ensued between the mirror counterparts, Chaz switched places with his reflection too only to find the mirror entities could damage more. After a tight battle they prevailed and passed safely through the mirror to find a circular chamber with an incomplete teleportation circle in the centre. 

Barathol cast Augry to learn that beyond the circle lay somewhere important but dangerous.. nothing else was gleaned and Aelnor decided he would wait to fix the circle. They returned to the ceiling door reflection and found a way through into the reflected area landing on their feet. Passing through the door they waded through waist deep water into a dark burial chamber - their torches casting odd shadows across the statues and shattered tombs. Something stirred in the darkness and before they could react, a swarm of vicious fish ripped into Chaz's leg. As the combat began they glanced around but Nailik was nowhere to be seen... 

## Session 27

A frantic fight ensued filling the chamber with the sound of thrashing water as two large schools of predatory fish began tearing into the group. A faint glow emerged from behind an ancient statue revealing a hidden Sahuagin priest - making the fight more difficult with divine magicks. Once again the light from Ailish' bell flail proved invaluable in illumintaing the dark chamber even for those with darkvision. After some creative moves, including throwing a net around the fish and hauling them above the water level so they could be massacred the enemies lay slain - the water now dark with blood from both sides. 

Inspection revealed the chamber to be fairly spacious, despite the low cieling. Statues and tombs , weathered smooth by the constant flow of water, lined the sides of the rectangular space. Near the centre stood a fountain bearing a large glyph in the basin, seen elsewhere in the temple. Guybrush found a coffin that had been smashed open, and uncovered an ornate wand and supple leather armour apaprently undamaged by the salty water - the front and back covered in barnacles and limpets seemingly fused with the piece. On the opposite side of the chamber was an unopened tomb bearing a small blue crystal atop the lid, with Barathol respectfully picked up and pocketed. 
Throughout this Chaz had been anxiously pacing wondering what had happened to Nailik, after checking the corridor and discovering he was no where to be seen - until the man returned, claiming he had been investigating something related to his research somewhere back in the temple. Despite the gang confronting him on this, he brushed off their concerns reminding them that they were here to help him and it doesn't matter what he was doing. 

Not satisfied with this answer, Barathol hung back as the group pressed on through the maze, and pushed Nailik against a wall asking him more directly what his deal was. Nailik chuckled unintimidated as Chaz pulled Barathol away, doing his duty to the Dread Prince by protecting Nailik. Whilst Barathol didn't get anyting directly from Nailik, he did strangely feel something that wasn't quite right - as if the figure that he felt wasn't quite matching up with Nailik's appearance.. strange.

Weary the group passed through the maze to the Eastern side and into a small room. They blockaded the way behind them and set up guard by a broken stair case which led to another room above them. The time down in the dungeon took it's toll though and Guybrush fell asleep during his watch, only to be awoken by a clicking sound emanating from the darkness above. Before he could react a large crustacean dropped from above and imapled him with a giant claw. The others rushed to his aid hearing his grunt of pain and quickly dispatched three of the beasts. The remainder of the rest period was fitful and jumpy, watching carefuly for more aggressors - but thankfully none came. 

Somewhat refreshed they headed to the level above, finding an apothecary room - remanants of herbs and remedial materials were discovered and Ailish picked up another potion of water breathing. The room led out onto the second floor of the temple - opening up onto the criss crossing walkways, made from crumbling stone dangerously weakened by years submerged in a dank environment. They entered a walled off circular area in the centre, containing a thin corridor around the circumference, and a circular chamber in the middle. Entering it cautiously revealed a patterned floor and 4 strange symbols adorning the far wall, situated in a ring with cyclical arrows pointing to the next symbol. Aelnor recognised two, one from this temple meaning loosely "water" and one from the air temple translating to "air". The air pointed to the water one. A glance about discovered more glyphs on the ceiling which looked somewhat similar to that of the teleportation circle sketched on the floor in the centre of the maze. 

The group set off only to be ambushed by a group of small fishlike merloc creatures - which were squashed like bugs. One in fact thrown to it's death on the floor below

Pressing on through the temple they came to a walkway that was broken off. A chamber with an open doorway on the other side of the 15 ft gap. Sensing creatures lurking in the darkness but knowing they must proceed this direction, the gang cautiously planned a course of action. Guybrush shot out a harpoon attached to a rope to the other side, digging into the stonework and creating a line across. As a second rope was thrown across the creatures emerged from the darkness, lamplike yellow eyes faintly glowing, and began to attack. The battle was frought with tension as one by one the gang attempted to cross while under fire. Dispatching some of the beasts, but not without Ailish slipping and barely grasping on to the bottom rope. Slowly half of the party had made it to the other side, except for Barathol, Nailik and Chaz. The ropes were cut by the enemy and the way over no longer safe. Aelnor teleported across into the darkness, meeting several well armed elite Sanghuain in combat with Ailish and guybrush. Seeing that the gang were being outnumbered, the three remaining unsure how to make it across until Nailik cursed, grabbed the other two and his eyes flashed a vibrant green and in an instant the three of them had been teleported across to the other side. With strength back on their side the gang beat back the creatures, not without sustaining some wounds and expending valuable spell slots. 

## Session 28

Once the room was cleared they had time to explore, discovering another mural depicting historical scenes from the Nimbralian's history - in particular a strange huge entity contained within a circle, floating above a pile of corpses. Three symbols arranged in a triangular pattern around the cricle. An engraved text read something along the lines of "10 thousand souls sacrificed for the future of millions." A single skull sat atop a plinth with two diamonds set inside the eye sockets. 

On the far side of the room stood a tall imposing door, flanked by statues. It took some time to figure out (with the aid of their incorporeal bottled friend, Kumari) that the door would only open for someone bearing the likeness of the high preist. They collected the pieces of the head of this statue they had been finding throughout the dungeon and assembled them into a man's face. Nailik used disguise self to make himself appear as this man and the door rumbled open.

A huge cavern lay within, dripping water fell contantly from the ceiling and down the dank walls. A central raised rocky platform sat in the centre. Descending into the rocky floor they realised they were walking atop countless bones. The shattered remains of an entire ship lay ahead and as Ailish went to investigate, some of the bones began to rattle and formed into skeletons. As they fought them off, the terrible wrinkled and rotting form of a sea hag arose over the lip of the central plateau and began to attack. Her magicks were strong and summoned waves of ghostly figures which struck terror into those facing them. A group of merlocs entered the fray slowing down the gang as they fought their way up a slope to the central area. A plateau containing a rocky deep pool from which the creature had emerged. A deep bluish pulsing glow emanating from the bottom of the pool casting enthereal light all around the chamber. 

## Session 29

Thrust into the battle  Barathol summoned the protection of Gond in the form of spirit guardians, meshing and fighting the same spell of the murloc priest. Aelnor's powerful fire magic dispatched of the merloc group while guybrush smashed a blue gem found in the air temple to summon an air elemental to their aid. However Guybrush was struck down with but a glance from the hideous creature, only to be raised again by his friend Ailish - luckily the elemental maintained it's assault on the enemy despite Guybrush losing control of it. Chaz went down under the attacks of the merlocs but managed to cling on to conciousness long enough to fight them off. He went down again but through the intense ferocity of his will to survive managed to stagger to his feet once more. Nailik was flying through the air casting beams of green energy from his palms. Even after managing to barely strike the creature they found it inveneruble to most attacks, and it would rapidly shift its form into sea water and evade their advance. The group fought to the end of their abilities, eventually striking down the creature with a final Divine Smite from the halfling Paladin (as is tradition). 

In the wake of the fight the group discovered vast sums of treasure beneath a pool including a strange intricately designed cube and some ingots of an unknown material. Nailik seemed unconcered with this as he threw a dark circular cloth to the ground which materialised into a hole. He instructed Chaz to go within an retrieve a huge chunk of hewn crystal. Chaz obediently retrieved the crystal and took it beneath the surface of the pool and setting it into the deep fissure at the bottom, where the blue light was emerging - casting the room temporarily into darkness. After a few moments a deep rumbled accompanied a sickly green light that began to seep from the crystal and spread slowly outward from the centre of the chamber. A grin spread across Nailik's features.

Concluding the job he offered to teleport everyone back to the surface, and the group wearily obliged, wishing to be done with this hell hole. As the spell began to complete though, Nailik stepped back at the last minute, another flash of green in his eyes - as Chaz and the gangbangers were tugged away from this dimension Aelnor got a final gimpse of Nailik as the disguise he had been wearing dropped from his visage. The last face Aelnor saw before the teleportation whisked him away was that of the Kilian Rivadel - the Sun Elf Spellwarden of the Occularium, a trumphant and wicked grin on his face.

## Session 30

The gang thumped down in an outdoor clearing, an evening sky stretched above them as the lay in the centre of a grove of twisted trees wondering what had happened. It didn't take them long to find a satyr watching them from behind a bush. He introduced himself as Gnarl Thupwind and informed them that they had arrived in the Fey Wild, a plane of existence different to their own. He told them that others had passed through here including a Dwarf who called himself Gorn Ragcliff. Mumbling about betrayal and angrily stormed off into the forest. They figured out their best way to get back was either to walk for 2 years to the city of Astrazalian and then wait for it to phase into the material plane, convince an archfey to send them back or maybe they might get lucky traversing the halls of Mag Tureah. 

To reach Mag Tureah the gang made their way deeper into this strange twilight forest, to the edge of a gently flowing river known as the "Wailing Torrent". Ailish found a frog and put it on his head. Barathol created a boat using his maker magic and they set off. After some time the river began to grow wilder, and less predictable - winding its way through a rocky gorge. A group of aggressive centaurs engaged them in combat, shooting from above. They navigated the rapids while fighting them off only to round a corner to the sight of a collosal gothic structure towering and straddling the gorge. The structure appeared to be a strange warped cluster of  towers, butresses and spires which stretched off into the misty distance. It seemed to have almost materialised in the middle of this gorge, such that the river ran right through a crack in the side - running alongside severar exposed floors - cut cleanly across revealing the rooms on either side of the river. However it was quickly apparent that the rapids dropped off into unknown darkness ahead and they would have to jump to get in. Most of them made it but Barathol barely avoided being sucked down into the depths.

They found a room with a curious armoured figure sat at a prepared dinner table. He offered them to eat with him but they declined. After conversing about the place, and finding out precious little other than this gentleman was probably mad, he pointed them to two passageways. One led to a blacksmith and one led to a librarian. They chose a route and found themselves in the company of an apparently completely mad owlkin who was perpetually stuck organising his collection of books - of which the pages were all completely empty. 

After this room they found a high cieilinged room where the walls were lined with towering bookcases. The way across was by jumping on high plinths, some of which were illusiory, the only way to find out was to jump! Whilst this occured they were battered by flying books of course. 

After this room were two more doors. One was opened with a key provided by the librarian, leading to an open domed chamber with the hunched figure of a frost giant. He had broken his hammer and had no way of escaping. His friendly pet giant goat was also present. Although Barathol attempted to fix his hammer he was unsuccessful - eventually instead Aelnor fireballed the ceiling to blow it open and the giant lifted them up to the leading passageway as thanks for letting him out. 

At the end of the corridor was a cavern - with a stream of lava running through it. The party saw what might be a portal from which the lava was running out of - and others that winked in and out of existence periodcally. As they entered to investigate they were attacked by a two headed giant humanoid weilding a club and and a morningstar. It had apparently been warped by its time in this confluence of planar energies and breathed fire and ice from each of it's heads. A portal to a realm of frost would open up blasting out freezing winds causing extra trepidation. They fought and struggled across the room - distracted it's pet gorgon and managing to push it into one of the portals. They made for a greenish portal at the end of the room - Aelnor went down and the gang were weakened substantially but managed to kill the ettin and leap through the portal to... safety?